ON THIS VOTE WE HAVE 24 YESES, 17 NOs.
17 NOs. >> MOTION TO TABLE IS AGREED TO.
>> MOTION TO TABLE IS AGREED TO. LET ME SAY THIS.
LET ME SAY THIS. YOU’VE MADE IT CLEAR THAT YOU
YOU’VE MADE IT CLEAR THAT YOU DID NOT WANT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
DID NOT WANT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE TO HEAR WHAT MR. COHEN HAS TO
TO HEAR WHAT MR. COHEN HAS TO SAY.
SAY. BUT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE A
BUT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE A RIGHT TO HEAR HIM.
RIGHT TO HEAR HIM. SO WE’RE GOING TO PROCEED.
SO WE’RE GOING TO PROCEED. THE AMERICAN PEOPLE CAN JUDGE
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE CAN JUDGE HIS CREDIBILITY FOR THEMSELVES.
HIS CREDIBILITY FOR THEMSELVES. NOW --
NOW -- >> MR. CHAIRMAN?
>> MR. CHAIRMAN? >> YES.
>> YES. >> WE DID NOT SAY THAT.
>> WE DID NOT SAY THAT. WE JUST SAID WE WANTED TO FOLLOW
WE JUST SAID WE WANTED TO FOLLOW THE RULES.
THE RULES. WE DIDN’T SAY STOP THE HEARING.
WE DIDN’T SAY STOP THE HEARING. WE SAID POSTPONE IT SO WE CAN
WE SAID POSTPONE IT SO WE CAN GET THE TESTIMONY AND THE KPIKT
GET THE TESTIMONY AND THE KPIKT EXHIBITS AS WE WERE SUPPOSED TO
EXHIBITS AS WE WERE SUPPOSED TO GET THEM.
GET THEM. >> RECLAIMING MY TIME.
>> RECLAIMING MY TIME. >> I NOW RECOGNIZE MYSELF FOR
>> I NOW RECOGNIZE MYSELF FOR FIVE MINUTES TO GIVE AN OPENING
FIVE MINUTES TO GIVE AN OPENING STATEMENT.
STATEMENT. TODAY THE COMMITTEE WILL HEAR
TODAY THE COMMITTEE WILL HEAR THE TESTIMONY OF MICHAEL COHEN.
THE TESTIMONY OF MICHAEL COHEN. PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP’S
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP’S LONG-TIME PERSONAL ATTORNEY AND
LONG-TIME PERSONAL ATTORNEY AND ONE OF HIS CLOSEST AND MOST
ONE OF HIS CLOSEST AND MOST TRUSTED ADVISERS OVER THE LAST
TRUSTED ADVISERS OVER THE LAST DECADE
DECADE DECADE.
DECADE. ON AUGUST 21st MR. COHEN
ON AUGUST 21st MR. COHEN APPEARED IN FEDERAL COURT AND
APPEARED IN FEDERAL COURT AND ADMITTED TO ARRANGING SECRET
ADMITTED TO ARRANGING SECRET PAYOFFS OF HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
PAYOFFS OF HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS.
OF DOLLARS. ON THE EVE OF THE ELECTION TO
ON THE EVE OF THE ELECTION TO SILENCE WOMEN ALLEGING AFFAIRS
SILENCE WOMEN ALLEGING AFFAIRS WITH DONALD TRUMP.
WITH DONALD TRUMP. MR. COHEN ADMITTED TO VIOLATING
MR. COHEN ADMITTED TO VIOLATING CAMPAIGN FINANCE LAWS AND OTHER
CAMPAIGN FINANCE LAWS AND OTHER LAWS.
LAWS. HE ADMITTED TO COMMITTING THESE
HE ADMITTED TO COMMITTING THESE FELONIES, QUOTE, IN COORDINATION
FELONIES, QUOTE, IN COORDINATION WITH AND AT THE DIRECTION OF,
WITH AND AT THE DIRECTION OF, UNQUOTE, PRESIDENT TRUMP.
UNQUOTE, PRESIDENT TRUMP. AND HE ADMITTED, HE ADMITTED TO
AND HE ADMITTED, HE ADMITTED TO LYING ABOUT HIS ACTIONS TO
LYING ABOUT HIS ACTIONS TO PROTECT THE PRESIDENT.
PROTECT THE PRESIDENT. SOME WILL CERTAINLY ASK IF MR.
SOME WILL CERTAINLY ASK IF MR. COHEN WAS LYING THEN, WHY SHOULD
COHEN WAS LYING THEN, WHY SHOULD WE BELIEVE HIM NOW.
WE BELIEVE HIM NOW. THIS IS A LEGITIMATE QUESTION.
THIS IS A LEGITIMATE QUESTION. AS A TRIAL LAWYER FOR MANY
AS A TRIAL LAWYER FOR MANY YEARS, I HAVE FACED THIS
YEARS, I HAVE FACED THIS SITUATION OVER AND OVER AGAIN.
SITUATION OVER AND OVER AGAIN. AND I ASKED THE SAME QUESTION.
AND I ASKED THE SAME QUESTION. HERE IS HOW I VIEW OUR ROLE.
HERE IS HOW I VIEW OUR ROLE. EVERY ONE OF US IN THIS ROOM HAS
EVERY ONE OF US IN THIS ROOM HAS A DUTY TO SERVE AS AN
A DUTY TO SERVE AS AN INDEPENDENT CHECK ON THE
INDEPENDENT CHECK ON THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH.
EXECUTIVE BRANCH. LADIES AND GENTLEMAN, WE ARE IN
LADIES AND GENTLEMAN, WE ARE IN SEARCH OF THE TRUTH.
SEARCH OF THE TRUTH. THE PRESIDENT HAS MADE MANY
THE PRESIDENT HAS MADE MANY STATEMENTS OF HIS OWN.
STATEMENTS OF HIS OWN. AND NOW THE AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE
AND NOW THE AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE A RIGHT TO HEAR THE OTHER SIDE.
A RIGHT TO HEAR THE OTHER SIDE. THEY CAN WATCH MR. COHEN’S
THEY CAN WATCH MR. COHEN’S TESTIMONY AND MAKE THEIR OWN
TESTIMONY AND MAKE THEIR OWN JUDGMENT.
JUDGMENT. WE RECEIVE A COPY OF MR. COHEN’S
WE RECEIVE A COPY OF MR. COHEN’S WRITTEN STATEMENT LATE LAST
WRITTEN STATEMENT LATE LAST NIGHT.
NIGHT. IT INCLUDES NOT ONLY PERSONAL
IT INCLUDES NOT ONLY PERSONAL EYEWITNESS ACCOUNTS OF MEETINGS
EYEWITNESS ACCOUNTS OF MEETINGS WITH DONALD TRUMP AS PRESIDENT
WITH DONALD TRUMP AS PRESIDENT INSIDE THE OVAL OFFICE, BUT IT
INSIDE THE OVAL OFFICE, BUT IT ALSO INCLUDES DOCUMENTS, AND
ALSO INCLUDES DOCUMENTS, AND OTHER CORROBORATING EVIDENCE FOR
OTHER CORROBORATING EVIDENCE FOR SOME OF MR. COHEN’S STATEMENTS.
SOME OF MR. COHEN’S STATEMENTS. FOR EXAMPLE, MR. COHEN HAS
FOR EXAMPLE, MR. COHEN HAS PROVIDED A COPY OF A CHECK SENT
PROVIDED A COPY OF A CHECK SENT WHILE PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS IN
WHILE PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS IN OFFICE WITH DONALD TRUMP’S
OFFICE WITH DONALD TRUMP’S SIGNATURE ON IT TO REIMBURSE MR.
SIGNATURE ON IT TO REIMBURSE MR. COHEN FOR THE HUSH MONEY PAYMENT
COHEN FOR THE HUSH MONEY PAYMENT TO STORMY DANIELS.
TO STORMY DANIELS. THIS NEW EVIDENCE RAISES A HOST
THIS NEW EVIDENCE RAISES A HOST OF TROUBLING, LEGAL, AND ETHICAL
OF TROUBLING, LEGAL, AND ETHICAL CONCERNS ABOUT THE PRESIDENT’S
CONCERNS ABOUT THE PRESIDENT’S ACTIONS IN THE WHITE HOUSE AND
ACTIONS IN THE WHITE HOUSE AND BEFORE.
BEFORE. WOULD YOU ALL CLOSE THAT DOOR,
WOULD YOU ALL CLOSE THAT DOOR, PLEASE?
PLEASE? THANK YOU.
THANK YOU. THIS CHECK IS DATED AUGUST 1ST,
THIS CHECK IS DATED AUGUST 1ST, 2017.
2017. SIX MONTHS LATER IN APRIL OF
SIX MONTHS LATER IN APRIL OF 2018, THE PRESIDENT DENIED
2018, THE PRESIDENT DENIED ANYTHING ABOUT IT.
ANYTHING ABOUT IT. IN APRIL OF 2018 PRESIDENT TRUMP
IN APRIL OF 2018 PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS FLYING ON AIR FORCE ONE WHEN
WAS FLYING ON AIR FORCE ONE WHEN A REPORTER ASKED HIM THE
A REPORTER ASKED HIM THE QUESTION, DID YOU KNOW ABOUT
QUESTION, DID YOU KNOW ABOUT $130,000 PAYMENT TO STORMY
$130,000 PAYMENT TO STORMY DANIELS?
DANIELS? THE ANSWER WAS, QUOTE, NO.
THE ANSWER WAS, QUOTE, NO. A MONTH AFTER THAT, THE
A MONTH AFTER THAT, THE PRESIDENT ADMITTED TO MAKING
PRESIDENT ADMITTED TO MAKING PAYMENTS TO MR. COHEN BUT
PAYMENTS TO MR. COHEN BUT CLAIMED THEY WERE A PART OF A,
CLAIMED THEY WERE A PART OF A, QUOTE, A MONTHLY RETAINER,
QUOTE, A MONTHLY RETAINER, UNQUOTE, FOR LEGAL SERVICES.
UNQUOTE, FOR LEGAL SERVICES. THIS CLAIM FELL APART IN AUGUST
THIS CLAIM FELL APART IN AUGUST WHEN FEDERAL PROSECUTORS
WHEN FEDERAL PROSECUTORS CONCLUDED, AND I QUOTE, IN
CONCLUDED, AND I QUOTE, IN TRUTH, AND IN FACT, THERE WAS NO
TRUTH, AND IN FACT, THERE WAS NO SUCH RETAINER AGREEMENT, END OF
SUCH RETAINER AGREEMENT, END OF QUOTE.
QUOTE. TODAY WE ALSO HEAR MR. COHEN’S
TODAY WE ALSO HEAR MR. COHEN’S ACCOUNT OF A MEETING IN 2016 IN
ACCOUNT OF A MEETING IN 2016 IN DONALD TRUMP’S OFFICE DURING
DONALD TRUMP’S OFFICE DURING WHICH ROGER STONE SAID OVER
WHICH ROGER STONE SAID OVER SPEAKERPHONE THAT HE HAD JUST
SPEAKERPHONE THAT HE HAD JUST SPOKE WITHIN JULIAN ASSANGE WHO
SPOKE WITHIN JULIAN ASSANGE WHO SAID THERE WOULD BE A, QUOTE,
SAID THERE WOULD BE A, QUOTE, MASSIVE DUMP OF E-MAILS THAT
MASSIVE DUMP OF E-MAILS THAT WOULD DAMAGE HILLARY CLINTON’S
WOULD DAMAGE HILLARY CLINTON’S CAMPAIGN, END OF QUOTE.
CAMPAIGN, END OF QUOTE. ACCORDING TO COHEN, MR. TRUMP
ACCORDING TO COHEN, MR. TRUMP REPLIED, QUOTE, WOULDN’T THAT BE
REPLIED, QUOTE, WOULDN’T THAT BE GREAT?
GREAT? END OF QUOTE.
END OF QUOTE. THE TESTIMONY THAT MICHAEL COHEN
THE TESTIMONY THAT MICHAEL COHEN WILL PROVIDE TODAY, LADIES AND
WILL PROVIDE TODAY, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, IS DEEPLY DISTURBING
GENTLEMEN, IS DEEPLY DISTURBING AND IT SHOULD BE TROUBLING TO
AND IT SHOULD BE TROUBLING TO ALL AMERICANS.
ALL AMERICANS. WE ALL HAVE TO MAKE OUR OWN
WE ALL HAVE TO MAKE OUR OWN EVALUATION OF THE EVIDENCE AND
EVALUATION OF THE EVIDENCE AND MR. COHEN’S CREDIBILITY.
MR. COHEN’S CREDIBILITY. AS HE ADMITS HE HAS REPEATEDLY
AS HE ADMITS HE HAS REPEATEDLY LIED IN THE PAST.
LIED IN THE PAST. I AGREE WITH RANKING MEMBER
I AGREE WITH RANKING MEMBER JORDAN THAT THIS IS AN IMPORTANT
JORDAN THAT THIS IS AN IMPORTANT FACTOR WE NEED TO WEIGH.
FACTOR WE NEED TO WEIGH. BUT WE MUST WEIGH IT AND WE MUST
BUT WE MUST WEIGH IT AND WE MUST HEAR FROM HIM.
HEAR FROM HIM. WHERE I DISAGREE FUNDAMENTALLY
WHERE I DISAGREE FUNDAMENTALLY WITH THE RANKING MEMBER INVOLVES
WITH THE RANKING MEMBER INVOLVES HIS EFFORTS TO PREVENT THE
HIS EFFORTS TO PREVENT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE FROM HEARING
AMERICAN PEOPLE FROM HEARING FROM MR. COHEN.
FROM MR. COHEN. MR. COHEN’S TESTIMONY RAISES
MR. COHEN’S TESTIMONY RAISES GRAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
GRAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT THE LEGALITY OF DONALD TRUMP’S
LEGALITY OF DONALD TRUMP’S CONDUCT, AND THE TRUTHFULNESS OF
CONDUCT, AND THE TRUTHFULNESS OF STATEMENTS WHILE HE WAS
STATEMENTS WHILE HE WAS PRESIDENT.
PRESIDENT. WE NEED TO ASSESS AND
WE NEED TO ASSESS AND INVESTIGATE THIS NEW EVIDENCE AS
INVESTIGATE THIS NEW EVIDENCE AS WE UPHOLD OUR CONSTITUTIONAL
WE UPHOLD OUR CONSTITUTIONAL OVERSIGHT RESPONSIBILITIES.
OVERSIGHT RESPONSIBILITIES. AND WE WILL CONTINUE AFTER TODAY
AND WE WILL CONTINUE AFTER TODAY TO GATHER MORE DOCUMENTS AND
TO GATHER MORE DOCUMENTS AND TESTIMONY IN OUR SEARCH FOR THE
TESTIMONY IN OUR SEARCH FOR THE TRUTH.
TRUTH. I HAVE MADE IT ABUNDANTLY CLEAR
I HAVE MADE IT ABUNDANTLY CLEAR TO MR. COHEN THAT IF HE COMES
TO MR. COHEN THAT IF HE COMES HERE TODAY AND HE DOES NOT TELL
HERE TODAY AND HE DOES NOT TELL HIM THE TRUTH, TELL US THE
HIM THE TRUTH, TELL US THE TRUTH, I WILL BE THE FIRST ONE
TRUTH, I WILL BE THE FIRST ONE TO REFER THAT THOSE UNTRUTHFUL
TO REFER THAT THOSE UNTRUTHFUL STATEMENTS TO DOJ.
STATEMENTS TO DOJ. SO WHEN PEOPLE SAY HE DOESN’T
SO WHEN PEOPLE SAY HE DOESN’T HAVE ANYTHING TO LOSE, HE DOES
HAVE ANYTHING TO LOSE, HE DOES HAVE A LOT TO LOSE IF HE LIES.
HAVE A LOT TO LOSE IF HE LIES. AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, BY THE
AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, BY THE WAY, VOTED FOR ACCOUNTABILITY IN
WAY, VOTED FOR ACCOUNTABILITY IN NOVEMBER.
NOVEMBER. AND THEY HAVE A RIGHT TO HEAR
AND THEY HAVE A RIGHT TO HEAR MR. COHEN IN PUBLIC SO THEY CAN
MR. COHEN IN PUBLIC SO THEY CAN MAKE THEIR OWN JUDGMENTS.
MAKE THEIR OWN JUDGMENTS. MR. COHEN’S TESTIMONY IS THE
MR. COHEN’S TESTIMONY IS THE BEGINNING OF THE PROCESS, NOT
BEGINNING OF THE PROCESS, NOT THE END.
THE END. LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, THE DAYS
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, THE DAYS OF THIS COMMITTEE PROTECTING THE
OF THIS COMMITTEE PROTECTING THE PRESIDENT AT ALL COSTS ARE OVER.
PRESIDENT AT ALL COSTS ARE OVER. THEY’RE OVER.
THEY’RE OVER. BEFORE I CLOSE, I WANT TO
BEFORE I CLOSE, I WANT TO COMMENT ABOUT THE SCOPE OF
COMMENT ABOUT THE SCOPE OF TODAY’S HEARING.
TODAY’S HEARING. AT THE REQUEST OF THE HOUSE
AT THE REQUEST OF THE HOUSE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE AND MY
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE AND MY VERY GOOD FRIEND ADAM SCHIFF,
VERY GOOD FRIEND ADAM SCHIFF, CONGRESSMAN SHD ADAM SCHIFF, THE
CONGRESSMAN SHD ADAM SCHIFF, THE CHAIRMAN, THE LIMITED SCOPE OF
CHAIRMAN, THE LIMITED SCOPE OF TODAY’S HEARING TO AVOID
TODAY’S HEARING TO AVOID QUESTIONS ABOUT RUSSIA.
QUESTIONS ABOUT RUSSIA. HOWEVER, MR. COHEN’S WRITTEN
HOWEVER, MR. COHEN’S WRITTEN TESTIMONY IN HIS WRITTEN
TESTIMONY IN HIS WRITTEN TESTIMONY, HE’S MADE STATEMENTS
TESTIMONY, HE’S MADE STATEMENTS RELATING TO RUSSIA.
RELATING TO RUSSIA. AND THESE ARE TOPICS THAT WE
AND THESE ARE TOPICS THAT WE UNDERSTAND DO NOT RAISE CONCERN
UNDERSTAND DO NOT RAISE CONCERN FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.
FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE. SO IN FAIRNESS TO THE RANKING
SO IN FAIRNESS TO THE RANKING MEMBER AND ALL COMMITTEE
MEMBER AND ALL COMMITTEE MEMBERS, WE WILL NOT RESTRICT
MEMBERS, WE WILL NOT RESTRICT QUESTIONS RELATING TO THE
QUESTIONS RELATING TO THE WITNESS’S TESTIMONY OR RELATED
WITNESS’S TESTIMONY OR RELATED QUESTIONS HE IS WILLING TO
QUESTIONS HE IS WILLING TO ANSWER.
ANSWER. FINALLY, I REMIND MEMBERS THAT
FINALLY, I REMIND MEMBERS THAT WE WILL NEED TO REMAIN MINDFUL
WE WILL NEED TO REMAIN MINDFUL OF THOSE AREAS WHERE THERE ARE
OF THOSE AREAS WHERE THERE ARE ONGOING DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
ONGOING DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE INVESTIGATIONS.
INVESTIGATIONS. THOSE SCOPING LIMITATIONS HAVE
THOSE SCOPING LIMITATIONS HAVE NOT CHANGED.
NOT CHANGED. FINALLY, AND TO MR. COHEN,
FINALLY, AND TO MR. COHEN, MARTIN LUTHER KING, MR. COHEN,
MARTIN LUTHER KING, MR. COHEN, SAID WORDS THAT I LEAVE WITH YOU
SAID WORDS THAT I LEAVE WITH YOU TODAY BEFORE YOU TESTIFY.
TODAY BEFORE YOU TESTIFY. HE SAID FAITH IS TAKING THE
HE SAID FAITH IS TAKING THE FIRST STEP.
FIRST STEP. EVEN WHEN YOU CAN’T SEE THE
EVEN WHEN YOU CAN’T SEE THE WHOLE STAIRCASE.
WHOLE STAIRCASE. THERE COMES A TIME WHEN SILENCE
THERE COMES A TIME WHEN SILENCE BECOMES BETRAYAL.
BECOMES BETRAYAL. OUR LAWS BEGIN TO END THE DAY WE
OUR LAWS BEGIN TO END THE DAY WE BECOME SILENT ABOUT THINGS THAT
BECOME SILENT ABOUT THINGS THAT TRULY MATTER.
TRULY MATTER. IN THE END, HE SAYS, WE WILL
IN THE END, HE SAYS, WE WILL REMEMBER NOT THE WORDS OF OUR
REMEMBER NOT THE WORDS OF OUR ENEMIES BUT THE SILENCE OF OUR
ENEMIES BUT THE SILENCE OF OUR FRIENDS.
FRIENDS. AND WITH THAT, I YIELD TO THE